This is just a simple note on vectorized
operations in R.
So, vectorized operations, is one of the
features of the R language
that make it, that makes it easy to use,
on the command line.
It makes very, kind of, nice to write
code, without
having to do lots of looping, and things
like that.
And so, it's kind of a natural thing to
have in a computational language.
Many other types of languages, like MATLAB
have this kind of feature.
so, the idea with vectorized operations
is, is that things can happen in parallel,
when you, for example want to do a
computation.
For example, suppose I got two vectors
here x and y.
x is the sequence one through four and y
is the sequence six through nine.
And I want to add the two vectors
together.
Now, when I say I want to add them, what I
mean
is I want to add the first element of x to
the
first element of y, the second element of
x to the second
element of y, et cetera, the third element
to the third element.
So I want to kind of do things in parallel
like that.
So, in other languages you might have to
use a loop to do that,
so you'd loop through each element and
kind of add them one by one.
But in R you can just use the plus to, on
the two vectors, and
it'll just add them together so x plus y
kind of does what you would expect.
It adds 1 to 6, 2 to 7, 3 to 8, and 4 to
9, so you get the vector 7, 9, 11, 13.
similarly, you can use the greater than,
or
less than symbols to, give you logical
vectors.
For example, x greater than 2.
So well x is actually a, a vector of 4
numbers.
So, which one, so, which number are you
comparing to 2?
Well, the, the vectorized operation
compares all
the numbers to 2, and it gives you
a vector of falses and trues depending on
which numbers happen to be bigger than 2.
So you can also use greater than equal to,
and that'll tell you which numbers are
greater than and
equal to 2, and the double equals sign,
tests for equality.
So it'll take each element of y and test
to see whether it's equal to 8.
other, and the other kind of,
or arithmetic operations like
multiplication, by
the asterisk, and division, by the
solidus, are all vectorized types of
operation.
So when you want to multiply or divide,
add,
subtract, vectors, you just you can do the
natural
thing, just add them together or multiply
them together, and they will
be, and they will be the operation will be
done in parallel.
Similarly you can do, you can do You can
add make,
you can add and subtract, and multiply and
divide matrices together.
So it's useful to know this because
there are different types of mult matrix
multiplication.
So I've created two matrices here, x and
y.
X is the matrix 1 through 4, it's a two by
two matrix.
And y is a, is a matrix that's all tens,
it's also a two by two matrix.
So if I just do x times y, this is not a
mat, matrix multiplication.
This is an element-wise multiplication.
So the first, the kind of the 1, 1 element
of x is multiplied by the 1, 1 element of
y.
And the 2,2 element is multiplying the 2,2
element of, of the other matrix, et
cetera.
So, each element is multiplied, together
in parallel.
Same when you do division.
This is not a matrix inverse or something
like that, this
is just dividing one matrix, literally
element by element by another.
So if you want to do a true matrix
multiplication, you have
to use the %*%, that's the symbol for a
matrix multiplication.
So when you, so, this is just, that's
it for vectorized operations for now,
You'll see these
a lot more often later on, but the idea,
but I just wanted to introduce this idea,
because it makes code easier to write.
And for those of you who are kind of used
to other types
of programming languages, if you've
programmed
in languages where you can't do this
kind of thing, it's sometimes, it's common
to kind of reflexively go to
something like a for loop or a while loop
or whatever it is.
But in the but in a language like R, you
can
just use the vectorized operations to make
the code a lot simpler.